# Algorithm
## Goals
The goal of this Parsing and File I/O program is to get me familiarized with the C++ process of parsing and file input/output through the basics of the fstream library. From this assignment, I learned that the getline function will be used to manipulate large pieces of data into progressively smaller chunks. Together with the stringstream function, I can also swap back and forth to 'tokenize' a large line of input and control where each piece goes.

In this program, I will need to use string stream and string functions to read data from a file that I have created on my own with some specific guidelines. Then, I will write a C++ program in vim to open that file and read the integers written in every line seperated by commas. Then, I have to convert the string of numbers to integers that the program can actualy read and compute in order to find the sum of these integers. With the sum of the integers, I can determine the number of times I need to print the string that comes after the line of integers on the output file.

After, I will need to open a new file, called the **output.txt**, to pass the strings to it. In the process of converting the string of numbers to integers, computing the sum of the integers, using a for loop to add the strings as many times as the sum to the output file, I utilized the string stream functions as converters and to read and pass data from one string to the other. Finally, I have successfully passed the string and data from one file to the other. Aside from that, the make file is also an important file that can help me compile and run the program more efficiently, since I only need a line of command to run the program. The return zero in the main() function marks the end of the program, and this entire program is compiled and ran to make sure that it executes all the commands and does all the work appropriately.

## Input
This program is opening an input file to read the data contained within it. It is not taking input from the user, but the strings from a file that I have created prior to running it. The input file has 5 lines of integers and 5 lines of strings. Each line of integers has 3 numbers seperated by commas. The 5 lines of strings instead, has only one word on each line. The goal of this program is to read the data from this input file, get the 3 integers for each line of integers, and compute the sum of them. Then, the string that comes right after the line of integers will be the string that will be passed to the output file. The sum of the integers determine the number of times the respective string that will be passed to the file.

## Output
The program is not outputting anything on the console, but the *main()* function is reading strings and integers and passing it to another file, called the output.txt. The program converts and takes the integers from the input.txt file, computes the sum of the integers, and outputs the strings as many times as the sum to the output.txt file. Each of the strings are seperated by a comma. At the end, there will be 5 lines of strings printed in the output file, with every line of strings printed in a specific manner. The strings passed will all be according to the strings that I have initialized in the input file and see how the program reads them and pass them to the new output file.

## Steps 
First, I created an input file, named input.txt. I added 5 lines of integers and another 5 lines of strings to the file in a specific format listed on the assignment page. For the integers, each line will have 3 different integers seperated by commas, while the strings are random words that I wanted to read in to my program. After, I continued working on my program on vim. 

I started off by including the *fstream, iostream, sstream,* and *string* libraries needed for the string and stringstream functions. Then, I declared and defined some variables, like integer *num* to store the integers passed by the converter, integer *times* initialized to zero that counts the number of times the file is called, and integer sum to store the sum of all integers in the line. Also, I declared a boolean isInteger and all the other strings and stringstream variables that I needed to read data from the input file, convert the data to integers and strings, and pass it to a new file in a specific manner. A total of 4 strings and 3 stringstreams are declared, along with an ifstream and an ofstream to handle the input and output file. 

Then, I used the file open function to open the input.txt file. I used a while loop to get data from the input file line by line, and did an if loop to assign the approriate functions to use while handling either the line of integers or strings. For handling integers, I used a while loop with a getline to read the integers one at a time and pass it from a string stream to a string since all of the integers are seperated by a comma delimiter. Then, I passed the string that contains the number to a string stream, and from a string stream to the num variable. This converts the number from a string to an actual integer that can be understood by the program. Also, the while loop will repeat this process until all of the integers have been read and terminates when it reads a newline. For each loop ran, the num will be added to the sum integer variable that is initially initialized as zero. This sum variable will return the value that adds up all the integers on the same line, which will be needed to print the strings out later in the program. Before the while loop ends, the isInteger boolean is also assigned to be false since after the next line will not be an integer, but a string.

For handling strings, I used a for loop with the value of sum as one of the conditions to assign the string to a string stream and append a comma between each string. The total number of strings appended to the string stream is the value of the sum variable. After that, I opened up a new file called **output.txt** in order to pass that string stream to the file. If the file is successfully opened, I then pass the string stream to the output file and append a newline to it right before it ends. Finally, I closed the two files respectively and end my program with returning zero. Before running and compiling it, I also did a makefile to make compiling and running easier with just a single line of command.

The program was then compiled and ran to check for any errors. After finalizing the codes, I did a git add ., git commit -m, and a git push -u origin master to upload the .c file to GitHub, located in a directory that I have created. 

